Add a RuntimeSpec for contract preparation (#324)
near/NEPs: specs/RuntimeSpec/Preparation.md

* The length of wasm code must not exceed `max_contract_size` genesis configuration parameter;
* Module must be a valid module according to the WebAssembly core 1.0 specification (this means no
  extensions such as multi value or simd; this limitation may be relaxed in the future).
* The wasm module may contain no more than `1_000_000` distinct signatures;
* The wasm module may contain no more than `1_000_000` function imports and local function
  definitions;
* The wasm module may contain no more than `100_000` imports;
* The wasm module may contain no more than `100_000` exports;
* The wasm module may contain no more than `1_000_000` global definitions and imports;
* The wasm module may contain no more than `100_000` data segments;
* UTF-8 strings comprising the wasm module definition (e.g. export name) may not exceed `100_000`
  bytes each;
* Function definitions may not specify more than `50_000` locals;
* Signatures may not specify more than `1_000` parameters;
* Signatures may not specify more than `1_000` results;
* Tables may not specify more than `10_000_000` entries;
* Module may not specify more than `1` table;

> * Module may not specify more than `1` memory;

Reviewer: Hmm… are all the numbers above hardcoded or are they genesis parameters? If they're hardcoded, maybe we should at least add a comment alongside the place where they're hardcoded to remind people to edit this place too if the parameter were to change?

Author: Some of them come from the version of the wasm specification we use (e.g. multi-memory proposal is not enabled); some others are enforced by [the parser we use](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/wasm-tools/blob/main/crates/wasmparser/src/limits.rs).

> * Module may not specify more than `1` table;
> * Module may not specify more than `1` memory;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The wasm module may not specify more than `1` table;
* The wasm module may not specify more than `1` memory;
```

> These additional requirements are imposed at a later stage:

Author: The kind of error message that gets put on chain will differ based on the order in which we apply the checks. I'll look into specifying when this later stage is, exactly.

the code into three distinct metered blocks instead:

```wat
(func
  (; charge_gas([nop block return]) ;)
  nop
  block
    return
    (; charge_gas([nop nop]) ;)
    nop
    nop
  end
  (; charge_gas([nop]) ;)
  nop)
```

#### `if` and `loop` push a new metered block

```wat
(func
  (; charge_gas([loop unreachable]) ;)
  loop
    (; charge_gas([br 0]) ;)
    br 0
  end
  unreachable
)
```

In this example the `loop` instruction will always introduce a new nested metered block for its
body, for the `end` pseudo-instruction as well as `br 0` cause a backward jump back to the
beginning of the loop body. A similar reasoning works for `if .. else .. end` sequence since the
body is only executed conditionally:

```
(func
  (; charge_gas([i32.const.42 if nop]) ;)
  i32.const 42
  if
    (; charge_gas([nop nop]) ;)
    nop
    nop
  else
    (; charge_gas([unreachable]) ;)
    unreachable
  end
  nop)
```

## Operand stack depth instrumentation

The `max_stack_height` genesis parameter imposes a limit on the number of entries the wasm
operand stack may contain during the contract execution.

The maximum operand stack height required for a function to execute successfully is computed

> statically by emulating operand stack operations each instruction executes. For example `i32.const

Reviewer: ```suggestion
statically by simulating the operand stack operations that each instruction executes. For example `i32.const
```

instrumented with additional operations before the compilation occurs. One such instrumentation
implements accounting of the gas fees.

Gas fees are accounted for at a granularity of sequences of instructions forming a metered block
and is consumed before execution of any instruction part of such a sequence. The accounting
mechanism verifies the remaining gas is sufficient, and subtracts the gas fee from the remaining
gas budget before continuing execution. In the case where the remaining gas balance is insufficient
to continue execution, the `GasExceeded` error is raised and execution of the contract is
terminated.

Let metered block to refer to a set of wasm instructions. Analysis segments wasm functions
into metered blocks such that every instruction belongs to exactly one metered block. The
instructions belonging to a metered block need not immediately follow another instruction within
the same metered block.

During analysis metered blocks form a stack and the instructions are assigned to the metered block
on top of the stack. The following terminology will be used throughout this section to refer to

> metered block operations:

Author: I incorporated this wording. Thanks!

specified specified by the `initial_memory_pages` and `max_memory_pages` genesis configuration
parameters. In order to ensure a level playing field, any module-local memory definitions are
transparently replaced with an import of a standard memory instance from `env.memory`.

If the original memory instance definition specified limits different from those specified by the
genesis configuration parameters, the limits are reset to the configured parameters.

## Gas instrumentation

In order to implement precise and efficient gas accounting, the contract code is analyzed and
instrumented with additional operations before the compilation occurs. One such instrumentation
implements accounting of the gas fees.

Gas fees are accounted for at a granularity of sequences of instructions forming a metered block
and is consumed before execution of any instruction part of such a sequence. The accounting
mechanism verifies the remaining gas is sufficient, and subtracts the gas fee from the remaining
gas budget before continuing execution. In the case where the remaining gas balance is insufficient
to continue execution, the `GasExceeded` error is raised and execution of the contract is

> terminated.

Author: I was going to say something along the lines of

> calling `used_gas` host function multiple times in the same metered block will return the same value

but this function internally charges additional gas as part of its own execution, so it is provably untrue. I have a hard time coming up with any other way to introduce wording around `used_gas` here, but I'll think about it more.
